ocpbugs-8882: configure an additional clientca for the openshiftapi s… (#66833)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/replace-the-certificate-authority-clientca.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/certificates/api-server.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="replace-the-certificate-authority_{context}"]

= Replace the installer-generated kubeconfig before replacing it with a newly generated CA certificate

The installer-generated kubeconfig cannot be removed, but it can be invalidated and replaced with a newly generated CA certificate.

> You may choose to invalidate the installer-generated kubeconfig, stored in the `admin-kubeconfig-client-ca` configmap under the `openshift-config` namespace, when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can invalidate the installer-generated kubeconfig. You might do this if any of the following conditions exist:
```

Author: Duplicate of earlier comment. I made the change there.

> * You don't trust who installed the cluster

Author: Duplicate. Made change with previous iteration

> * The kubeconfig is leaked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The kubeconfig is leaked.
```

Author: Duplicate. Changed earlier.

> * Other security-related needs exist, such as periodic rotation of the kubeconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Other security-related needs exist, such as the periodic rotation of the kubeconfig.
```

Author: Duplicate. Already changed.

[IMPORTANT]
====
To avoid being locked out of the cluster, have an alternative way to login, such as, using an OAuth-authenticated administrator user or using a client certificate signed by an additional client CA.
====

.Procedure

> . Optional: Generate a new self-signed CA, unless an existing corporate or other CA is to be used.

Reviewer: Seems like this should this be a prerequisite.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export NAME="custom"
$ export CA_SUBJ="/OU=openshift/CN=admin-kubeconfig-signer-custom"

# set the CA validity to 10 years
$ export VALIDITY=3650

# generate the CA private key
$ openssl genrsa -out ${NAME}-ca.key 4096

# Create the CA certificate
$ openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key ${NAME}-ca.key -sha256 -days $VALIDITY -out ${NAME}-ca.crt -subj "${CA_SUBJ}"
----
+

> . Generate a new `system:admin` certificate. The client certificate must have the user into the x.509 subject CN field and the group into the O field.

Reviewer: | The client certificate must have the user into the x.509 subject CN field and the group into the O field.

Should these be call-outs, pointing out where the values go?

Author: I'd say no, as then we'd be documenting the certificate which would be a third party item.

On the other hand this sentence doesn't make sense to me, so I'll try to find out how it can be addressed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export USER=system:admin
$ export GROUP=system:masters
$ export USER_SUBJ="/O=${GROUP}/CN=${USER}"

# create the user CSR
$ openssl req -nodes -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout ${USER}.key -subj "${USER_SUBJ}" -out ${USER}.csr

# sign the user CSR and generate the certificate, the certificate must have the `clientAuth` extension
$ openssl x509 -extfile <(printf "extendedKeyUsage = clientAuth") -req -in ${USER}.csr \
       -CA ${NAME}-ca.crt -CAkey ${NAME}-ca.key -CAcreateserial -out 
${USER}.crt -days $VALIDITY -sha256
----    
+

> . Add the new certificate as an additional clientCA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the following commands to add the new certificate as an additional clientCA:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
# create the client-ca ConfigMap"
$ oc create configmap client-ca-custom -n openshift-config --from-file=ca-bundle.crt=${NAME}-ca.crt

> 

Reviewer: Split these two commands into separate code blocks. I might also make the comments into substeps.

# patch the APIServer
$ oc patch apiserver cluster --type=merge -p '{"spec": {"clientCA": {"name": "client-ca-custom"}}}'
----
+

> . Import an additional CA certificate in a configmap of the openshift-config namespace. The CA file must be in PEM format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the following commands to import an additional CA certificate in a config map in the `openshift-config` namespace. The CA file must be in PEM format.
```
